[20543] Examples refactor: Hello World (#4547)
eProsima/Fast-DDS: examples/cpp/hello_world/README.md

# Hello world example

The *eProsima Fast DDS hello world* example is a simple application intended to demonstrate a basic DDS deployment.

> 
> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This example is part of the suite of examples designed by eProsima that aims to illustrate the features and possible configurations of DDS deployments through *eProsima Fast DDS*.

In this case, the *hello world* example describes the simplest deployment of a Fast DDS publisher and subscriber.

> 

Reviewer: I'm missing an index here

> ## Example in deep

Reviewer: I don't think this is the correct formulation

> Each entity of the example (publisher and subscriber) creates different nested DDS entities: domain participant, publisher & dataWriter, and subscriber & dataReader, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each entity of the example (publisher and subscriber) creates different nested DDS entities: domain participant, publisher, and data writer; and subscriber, and data reader, respectively.
```

> In both cases, the three DDS entities (domain participant, publisher/subscriber and dataWriter/dataReader) load their default configuration from the environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, the three DDS entities (domain participant, publisher/subscriber and data writer/data reader) load their default configuration from the environment.
```

If the environment does not specify the expected configuration, they take the default configuration per entity.
For further information regarding the configuration environment, please refer to the *[XML profile playground](#xml-profile-playground)* subsection in the *[advanced configuration](#advanced-configuration)* section.

The *hello world* example, together with the remain examples, would include a listening callback on the subscriber side. The subscriber will manage the new available data in the same thread as the main subscriber application.
For simplicity, the ``HelloWorldSubscriber`` implements it own callback.

> Furthermore, this particular example includes a wait-set implementation. In contrast to implementing a listening callback, the wait-set is a mechanism where a dedicated thread waits until a status condition occurs. In that moment, that status condition triggering event would be evaluated to determine witch actions should be taken against it.

Reviewer: This needs to be rephrased. I would not refer to the rest of the examples here, just to this one. I'd say that it can be run with two different subscription paradigms, and then explain the two

> For this example, both listening callback and wait-set implementation would run the same code and generate the same output for both triggering events: subscription matching and new data available.

Reviewer: Although similar, they do not run the same code

## Run the example

> To launch this test open two different consoles. One of them will run the publisher side of the example, and the other would run the subscriber side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To launch this example, two different terminals are required.
One of them will run the publisher side of the example, and the other will run the subscriber side.
```

### Hello world publisher

#### Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

```shell
user@machine:example_path$ ./hello_world publisher
Publisher running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Publisher at any time.
```

#### Windows

```powershell
example_path> hello_world.exe publisher
Publisher running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Publisher at any time.

> ```

Reviewer: I'd make this a bullet point list, same for sub

### Hello world subscriber

#### Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

```shell
user@machine:example_path$ ./hello_world subscriber
Subscriber running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Subscriber at any time.
```

#### Windows

```powershell
example_path> hello_world.exe subscriber
Subscriber running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Subscriber at any time.
```

## Expected output

> It does not matter which entity is launched first, because the publisher has a condition to wait until the first match to start sending hello world samples.
> The expected output on both cases is a first displayed message acknowledging they have matched, followed by the amount of samples sent or received until user press Ctrl+C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of which application is run first, since the published will not start sending that until a subscriber is discovered, the expected output both for publishers and subscriber is a first displayed message acknowledging the match, followed by the amount of samples sent or received until Ctrl+C is pressed
```

### Hello world publisher

```shell
Publisher running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Publisher at any time.
Publisher matched.
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '1' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '2' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '3' SENT
...
```

### Hello world subscriber

```shell
Subscriber running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Subscriber at any time.
Subscriber matched.
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '1' RECEIVED
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '2' RECEIVED
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '3' RECEIVED
...
```

> When pressed Ctrl+C to stop one of the applications, the other will detect the unmatched status, and will display an informative message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Ctrl+C is pressed to stop one of the applications, the other one will show the unmatched status, displaying an informative message.
```

> This output example represents stopping the subscriber application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a possible output of the publisher application when stopping the subscriber one.
```

> 
> ### Hello world publisher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
...
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '9' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '10' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '11' SENT
Publisher unmatched.
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '12' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '13' SENT
...
```

> ### Hello world subscriber
> 
> ```shell
> ...
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '9' RECEIVED
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '10' RECEIVED
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '11' RECEIVED
> user@machine:example_path$ |
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Stopping the subscriber application does not make the publisher stop sending data. But in the opposite case, stopping the publisher application will make subscriber stop receiving data.

Reviewer: As far as I understand, if there are no matched subs, the publisher does stop sending data

> 
> ### Hello world publisher
> 
> ```shell
> ...
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '9' SENT
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '10' SENT
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '11' SENT
> user@machine:example_path$ |
> ```
> 
> ### Hello world subscriber
> 
> ```shell
> ...
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '9' RECEIVED
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '10' RECEIVED
> Message: 'Hello world' with index: '11' RECEIVED
> Subscriber unmatched.
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Advanced configuration

Reviewer: I don't think we need this title. You'd need to adjust the level of the rest of titles
```suggestion
```

### Wait-set subscriber

As described in the *[example in deep](#example-in-deep)* section, the *hello world* example has two listening implementations. Launching the subscriber example with the flag ``-w`` or ``--waitset`` will use the wait-set approach instead of the listening callback.

#### Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

```shell
user@machine:example_path$ ./hello_world subscriber --waitset
```

#### Windows

```powershell
example_path> hello_world.exe subscriber --waitset

> ```

Reviewer: Bullet list

The expected output is exactly the same as the described in the *[previous](#expected-output)* section.

> All the example available flags can be queried running the executable with the ``-h`` or ``--help`` flag.

Reviewer: This could have come way earilier

### XML profile playground

> The *eProsima Fast DDS* entities can be configured through an XML profile from the environment by adding a reference the XML profiles file setting the environment variable ``FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`` to its path.

Reviewer: Please rephrase this

#### Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

```shell
user@machine:example_path$ export FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=hello_world_profile.xml
```

#### Windows

```powershell
example_path> set FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=hello_world_profile.xml

> ```

Reviewer: Bullet list

> The example contains a XML profiles files with certain QoS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example provides with an XML profiles files with certain QoS:
```

- Reliable reliability: avoid sample loss.

> - Transient local durability: enable late-join-participants to receive previous samples if connection was lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transient local durability: enable late-join subscriber applications to receive previous samples.
```

- Keep-last history with high depth: ensure certain amount of previous samples for late-joiners.

Applying different configurations to the entities would change the sample management behavior, among other configurations, but in any case these configurations would affect in the behavior of the *hello_world* example.

> The expected output would be exactly the same as launching it with no environment configuration.

Reviewer: This reads weird

> Try your own XML profile to see how your configuration affects the *hello world* example communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

## Advanced configuration

### Wait-set subscriber

As described in the *[example in deep](#example-in-deep)* section, the *hello world* example has two listening implementations. Launching the subscriber example with the flag ``-w`` or ``--waitset`` will use the wait-set approach instead of the listening callback.

#### Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

```shell
user@machine:example_path$ ./hello_world subscriber --waitset
```

#### Windows

```powershell
example_path> hello_world.exe subscriber --waitset
```

The expected output is exactly the same as the described in the *[previous](#expected-output)* section.

All the example available flags can be queried running the executable with the ``-h`` or ``--help`` flag.

### XML profile playground

The *eProsima Fast DDS* entities can be configured through an XML profile from the environment by adding a reference the XML profiles file setting the environment variable ``FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`` to its path.

#### Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

```shell
user@machine:example_path$ export FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=example_profile.xml
```

#### Windows

```powershell
example_path> set FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=example_profile.xml
```

> Other alternative is naming the XML profiles file as ``DEFAULT_FASTDDS_PROFILES.xml`` and make sure the file is besides the ``hello_world`` executable.

Reviewer: I would not point to that here
```suggestion
```

The *eProsima Fast DDS hello world* example is a simple application intended to demonstrate a basic DDS deployment.

This example is part of the suite of examples designed by eProsima that aims to illustrate the features and possible configurations of DDS deployments through *eProsima Fast DDS*.

In this case, the *hello world* example describes the simplest deployment of a Fast DDS publisher and subscriber.

* [Description of the example](#description-of-the-example)
* [Run the example](#run-the-example)

> * [Expected output](#expected-output)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* [Wait-set subscriber](#wait-set-subscriber)
* [XML profile playground](#xml-profile-playground)

## Description of the example

Each example application (publisher and subscriber) creates different nested DDS entities: domain participant, publisher, and data writer; and domain participant, subscriber, and data reader, respectively.
In both cases, the three DDS entities (domain participant, publisher/subscriber and data writer/data reader) load their default configuration from the environment.
If the environment does not specify the expected configuration, they take the default configuration per entity.
For further information regarding the configuration environment, please refer to the *[XML profile playground](#xml-profile-playground)* section.

> This particular example includes two different subscription paradigms: listening callbacks and wait-sets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This particular example includes two different subscription paradigms; i.e. listening callbacks and wait-sets:
```

> * The listening callback mechanism consists on declaring a listener class and attach it to the data reader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The listening callback mechanism consists on declaring a listener class and attaching it to the data reader.
```

> When the data reader is triggered by an event, it runs the listener's method associated to that event, as a callback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When the data reader is triggered by an event, it runs the listener's method associated to that event, as a callback.
```

>   For simplicity, in this example the subscriber class inherits the listener class, and it implements it own callback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For simplicity, in this example, the subscriber class inherits from the listener class, overriding the corresponding callback.
```

* The wait-set is a mechanism where a dedicated thread waits until a status condition occurs.

> In that moment, that status condition triggering event would be evaluated to determine witch actions should be taken against it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In that moment, that status condition triggering event would be evaluated to determine witch actions should be taken against it.
```

For this example, both listening callback and wait-set implementation would run similar code and generate equivalent output for both triggering events: subscription matching and new data available.

## Run the example

To launch this example, two different terminals are required.

> One of them will run the publisher example application, and the other would run the subscriber application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of them will run the publisher example application, and the other will run the subscriber application.
```

### Hello world publisher

* Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

    ```shell
    user@machine:example_path$ ./hello_world publisher
    Publisher running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Publisher at any time.
    ```

* Windows

    ```powershell
    example_path> hello_world.exe publisher
    Publisher running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Publisher at any time.
    ```

### Hello world subscriber

* Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

    ```shell
    user@machine:example_path$ ./hello_world subscriber
    Subscriber running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Subscriber at any time.
    ```

* Windows

    ```powershell
    example_path> hello_world.exe subscriber
    Subscriber running. Please press Ctrl+C to stop the Subscriber at any time.
    ```

All the example available flags can be queried running the executable with the ``-h`` or ``--help`` flag.

> ## Expected output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Expected output
```

> Regardless of which application is run first, since the published will not start sending that until a subscriber is discovered, the expected output both for publishers and subscriber is a first displayed message acknowledging the match, followed by the amount of samples sent or received until Ctrl+C is pressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of which application is run first, since the publisher will not start sending data until a subscriber is discovered, the expected output both for publishers and subscribers is a first displayed message acknowledging the match, followed by the amount of samples sent or received until Ctrl+C is pressed.
```

> Regardless of which application is run first, since the published will not start sending that until a subscriber is discovered, the expected output both for publishers and subscriber is a first displayed message acknowledging the match, followed by the amount of samples sent or received until Ctrl+C is pressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of which application is run first, since the publisher will not start sending data until a subscriber is discovered, the expected output both for publishers and subscribers is a first displayed message acknowledging the match, followed by the amount of samples sent or received until Ctrl+C is pressed.
```

The following is a possible output of the publisher application when stopping the subscriber app.

```shell
...
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '8' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '9' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '10' SENT
Message: 'Hello world' with index: '11' SENT
Publisher unmatched.
```

## Wait-set subscriber

As described in the *[Description of the example](#description-of-the-example)* section, the *hello world* example has two listening implementations. Launching the subscriber example with the flag ``-w`` or ``--waitset`` will use the wait-set approach instead of the listening callback.

* Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

    ```shell
    user@machine:example_path$ ./hello_world subscriber --waitset
    ```

* Windows

    ```powershell
    example_path> hello_world.exe subscriber --waitset
    ```

The expected output is exactly the same as the described in the *[previous](#expected-output)* section.

## XML profile playground

The *eProsima Fast DDS* entities can be configured through an XML profile from the environment.

> It is performed by setting the environment variable ``FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`` with the path to the XML profiles file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is accomplished by setting the environment variable ``FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`` to path to the XML profiles file:
```

* Ubuntu ( / MacOS )

    ```shell
    user@machine:example_path$ export FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=hello_world_profile.xml
    ```

* Windows

    ```powershell
    example_path> set FASTDDS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=hello_world_profile.xml
    ```

The example provides with an XML profiles files with certain QoS:

- Reliable reliability: avoid sample loss.
- Transient local durability: enable late-join subscriber applications to receive previous samples.
- Keep-last history with high depth: ensure certain amount of previous samples for late-joiners.

Applying different configurations to the entities will change to a greater or lesser extent how the application behaves in relation to sample management.

> In any case these settings will affect the behavior of the sample itself: the output of the sample will be the same regardless of the configuration (or lack of configuration) provided by the environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even when these settings affect the behavior of the sample management, the applications' output will be the similar.
```
